Hello, I'm Andrew Maine and this is the
OpenAI podcast. Today our guests are
Sarah Frier, CFO of OpenAI and legendary
investor Venode Kosla of Kla Ventures.
In this discussion, we're going to talk
about the state of the AI ecosystem,
whether or not we're in a bubble and how
startups and investors can succeed as AI
progresses.
>> Unlike something like Netflix where
they're running so many hours in the
day, I think of it much more like
infrastructure, like electricity. demand
is limited not by anything other than
availability of compute. Today I think
the conversation we need to have is what
will people do?
2025 was about agents in vibe coding.
Now it's 2026. What's the story of 2026?
>> I think we matured in vibe coding in
2025. I don't think we've matured in
agents. So agents especially
multi-agentic systems will mature to the
point of having real visible impact
whether you're an enterprise and you
have a multi- aent systems doing full
task like running an ERP system for you
um you know doing all the reconciliation
every day acrruals every day tracking
contracts every day I think that on the
enterprise side. But today
uh on the consumer side, you know, it's
still a hassle to make plan a trip,
that's a multi- aentic thing that looks
across a lot of different things from
your food preferences to the restaurant
reservation to airline schedules to your
personal calendar. Uh those will start
to mature I think a year from now. Um so
I'm pretty excited about that. I think
models in robotics and real world models
that go beyond well beyond robotics like
general intuition
uh will all start to happen in in the
next year. So I think that that those
are areas to look for. There's usual
functions like memory in llams
um continual learning in llams
um
red reduction of the impact of
hallucinations. Those are all areas I
could go on. There's half a dozen areas
in which AI doesn't do as well today
that will be start to be addressed.
>> Yeah. And I think at its baseline what
Venote is saying is 26 is the beginning
of closing this capability gap. So what
we know is we've handed people massive
intelligence, right? We've handed them
the keys to the Ferrari, but they are
only learning how to take it out on the
road for the first time. Um we need to
give consumers more and more easy ask
easy easy ways to go from Chad GBT is
just a chatbot call and response. Most
people use it today just to ask
questions. But how do we take it towards
being a true task worker that that books
that trip for them or helps them get a
second opinion on what they just heard
from their doctor or enables them to
create a menu for their diabetic child,
right? How do we help them really move
from simple questions into actual
outcomes that make my life better? And
then on the enterprise side, it's that
same continuum. How do we close the
capability gap? Right? One of the things
we know from our state of the enterprise
AI and the enterprise report that our
chief economist put out at the end of
last year is on the frontier versus just
even the median corporation, the the
average number of messages or the median
is about 6x, which will tell you that's
6x the usage from a company that's
already on the frontier. And we know
that frontier isn't even pushed to its
max. So for us, it's this focus of how
do we help consumers move along that
continuum to true agentic task working.
And then for enterprises, how do we
create a much more sophisticated
vertically specialized outcome for
enterprises that allows them to go from
maybe a very simple chat GPT
implementation the whole way to
something that's transforming the most
important part of their business? For a
healthcare provider, it might be their
drug discovery process. For a hospital,
it might be the time to admit a patient
to get that patient back into the
community. for um a really large
retailer, it might be just larger basket
sizes, higher conversion rates, and much
happier customers. So, it's the basics
of closing that capability gap.
>> So, I I I might add one other
perspective. We've talked about the
number of areas in which the technology
will advance and capability will
advance. I would venture to guess today
of the people using AI whether it's
personal or enterprise some singledigit
percentage are even using 30% of the
capability of the AI.
>> So this
percentage of people who using 30% or
50% let alone 80% of the AI's
capabilities will keep increasing. I
think that's a 10-year journey before
people learn to use AI. I've seen this
some people kind of pundits confuse
adoption curves for capability curves
and that's that's come up where you've
seen
>> so that's the point I'm making
>> and it's a force multiplier because
today we have over 800 million using
chat GPT today 800 million consumers
weekly using but you know that number
should be in the billions and then what
percentage use are they using it for
it's like we've just turned electricity
on in the home we've wired up the home
and they've turned on the lights but
they have no idea that they could now
heat their home, they could cook, they
could curl their hair, right? There's so
many things you now can do.
>> An analogy I've used is that email
didn't really get much better between
1990 and the year 2000. Neither did
mobile, but usage went way up. And the
problem wasn't like, well, we need
better email. We need more better
mobile. It's like people need to learn
all the things they could use it for,
>> right? Yeah. And in a more sophisticated
way. Like mobile's always one that's
interesting to me because when mobile
took off, people just took their desktop
websites and turned them into mobile.
and they were really hard to scroll, but
I guess you at least had them in your
pocket. But then you realized you had a
GPS, so now you could have Uber and now
you could do things with location. Or
you had a camera at your fingertips.
Okay, so now, yeah, I can take
photographs of all my friends, but I can
also snap, you know, a check and deposit
it into my bank account. Although we
should fix the whole paper check thing,
but that's an aside.
>> It still seems like a but I can just
take a photo of this and now I get money
in my bank account. Yeah, but you know
those those that all existed in in the
minute mobile was available to us, but
just the you know the the the ability
for human ingenuity to come to work on
it. So I think you're right. I don't
even know if we need more intelligence
than we have today to vastly increase
outcomes, but of course the models are
going to keep getting more intelligent
as well. You mentioned health and that's
one of the really kind of high stakes
things we think about when it comes to
just probably the most important thing
and it's kind of fascinating to think
about that just you know a few years ago
we got chat GPT and we're using it for
very simple applications and now we're
trusting with HIPPA compliant data. Do
you look at that as sort of a marker of
how fast or how well things have been
accelerating? Are there other ones like
that you think about to say okay now we
know we're some new level? Health is
clearly one of those areas. I've long
believed uh it'll revolutionize health
uh by making uh expertise be a commodity
in all areas of health. Uh the problem
with health is
regulatory.
So first there's constraints on what AI
can do. An AI can't legally write a
prescription even if it's better than
human beings at writing a prescription.
Um that is not only the FDA but it's
actually beyond the FDA into the
American Medical Association
institutionally controls that function.
So they will be incumbent resistance in
a lot of areas. I think we can talk
about it if you like. U but diagnosing
is still a constraint because the FDA
controls that there's no AI approved as
a medical device yet. So that that all
fortunately this administration is doing
a very good job of moving quickly and
taking the appropriate level of risk. So
I'm pretty pleased to see what's
happening there. On the health front, we
see in our data 230 million people every
week ask Chat GPT a health question.
>> Yeah.
>> 66% of US physicians say they use chat
GPT in their daily work. I'll tell you
at a personal level, my brother is an
HDU doctor in the UK. So his job is
right, you hit the ER, they don't know
how to triage you, so they send you to
him. You kind of don't want to show up
to him. He's expected to have very good
though. He's very good at what he does,
but it means you're not in good shape.
>> But he's expect to have an almost an
encyclopedic knowledge of every disease
that ever existed. So I always give the
example he works in Aberdine in
Scotland. If you showed up with malaria,
he will not think of that. That is not
in his pattern recognition. And yet that
could have happened. I don't know, you
went on vacation summer, you got bitten
by a mosquito, boom, you're showing up
in an ER room in Aberdine.
what chat GPT can do or what the model
can do is really act as a great
augmentation to the doctor which is why
I think 66% of them are using it and
that number is only growing right you
know it's probably already um much
higher and so I think it's just a great
example of where something like health
we're getting the benefit of our doctors
being able to have always the latest
research in front of them always the
latest known um interaction say between
someone's drug regime and what they're
living through and experiencing as
individuals. But it also puts some
independence back into consumer's hands.
So now I get the opportunity to um ahead
of time do some research on what my
symptoms might be saying. So I can have
a much more educated conversation with
my doctor. It allows me to maybe get a
second opinion or know that I want to go
ask for a second opinion. Um it also we
go very fast to you know these extreme
places but just even things like hey
I've got 20 minutes a day to exercise. I
know I'm suffering from type 1 diabetes.
What what could I do in 20 minutes or my
daughter has a an interesting um issue
with the food she eats. And so it used
to be a super just frustrating thing to
go to a restaurant even because we'd
have to almost ask the server so many
questions. And now we can photograph a
menu. Chat suggests what are likely the
best dishes for her to order. And then
we can have a bit more of a of a turser
conversation, but a bit more productive
on what's going to work. And it has just
changed how we think about just eating.
Takes it away from all about the food to
why we're going out for dinner together.
And so I think they are all these just
examples of something like health. It's
already happening and it's going to keep
getting better and better. And then to
def's point, I think regulatory
environment is going to have to catch
up.
>> It's it's no matter what kind of system
you're under, the cost of medical care
is exceeding the GDP of every country at
the rate at which increases. And it
seems like we needed AI, we needed it
now. And you know it's can be helpful
and as you pointed out it's the first
time the cost of medical intelligence
has dropped year-over-year but that
comes with a lot of demand for compute
and we have a lot more questions uh you
know that we want to have answered and
certainly people can see the need for
more compute but the scale and scope at
which openi is investing in compute is
incredibly huge you know we're talking
you know numbers that are just really
hard to fathom um how does openai
determine determine that need. You know,
what are the metrics you're looking at
to think that like yes, we need to spend
this much.
>> So, first of all, we are trying to make
sure we stay investing in compute to
match the pace of our revenue. And we've
seen a really strong correlation between
in period compute and in period revenue.
I'll give you an example. If you just go
back in 23, 24, and 25, our compute was
200 megawatt, 600 megawatt, and we ended
last year at 2 gawatt. Against that, and
it's really easy because the numbers
match up. We exited 23 at 2 billion in
ARR, so 200 megawatts, 2 billion. We
exited 24 at 6 billion. So 6 billion,
600 megawws. And we exited last year a
little over 20 billion. 20 billion, 2
gawatt. actually it's been accelerating.
So that's just even if you look at the
slope of the line it says more compute
more revenue. Now there is definitely a
timing mismatch because I have to make
decisions today about making sure we
have compute in not even 26 or 27 but 28
29 and 30 because if I don't put in
orders today and don't give the signal
to create data centers it won't be there
right today we feel absolutely
constrained on compute there are many
more products that we could launch many
more models that we would train many
more multimodality things we would
explore if we had more compute today. So
for example, even in the last year, I
think the overall hardware investments
globally has gone up by something like
$220 billion. That's just how much
actual spending has gone up. If you look
at chips, chip forecasts have gone up
similarly about $334
billion.
So it's not just open AI. The signal
from the whole environment is AI is
real. We are in a paradigm shift. We
need to invest to give people the
intelligence they need to do all the
things we just talked about. For
example, so back inside of OpenAI, we do
spend a lot of time going very deep on
what is our demand signal in consumer in
enterprise in developers. We think about
what's the mosaic first at the base like
on an infrastructure layer. How do we
create max optionality? So we want to be
multicloud, multi-chip. Um, and that
gives us uh an interesting layer at the
infrastructure layer, one tick up at the
product layer. We also want to become
more multi-dimensional. So we used to
just be one product, chat GPT. Today we
are chat GPT for consumer with all of
the blades inside it, healthcare and so
on. Chat GPT for work, but we also have
Sora as a new platform. Um we have uh
some of our transformational research
projects.
One tick up. We also then have a
business model ecosystem that's becoming
much more um multi-dimensional. Began
with a single subscription because we'd
launched chat GPT and we needed a way to
pay for the compute. We now have
multiple
>> price GPT subscriber by the way that was
>> I love you for that.
>> Multiple subscriptions. We went to the
enterprise and had SASbased pricing. We
have credit based pricing now for places
where high value is being um found. So
people want to pay more to get more. Um
we're beginning to think about things
like commerce and ads. And then of
course longer term I like models like
for example would we do um licensing
models to really align let's say in drug
discovery if we licensed our technology
you have a breakthrough that drug takes
off and we get a licensed portion of all
its sales. It's great alignment for us
with our customer. So kind of if you
think about those three tiers, I
actually think of it like a Rubik's
cube. Okay, so we went from a single
block, you know, one CSP, Microsoft, one
chip, one product, one business model to
now a whole three-dimensional cube. And
one of the things I love about a Rubik's
cube, I'm probably not getting the
number exactly right, but I think it has
43 quintilion different states it can be
in. It always blew my mind when I was in
university. Um, so now just think about
that cube spinning. So we pick a low
latency chip going alongside something
like coding that's 5x the pace that
people expect. We can charge a high-end
subscription for that. So it's almost
like you line up the cube and you get
three colors on one side. Um, we could
spin the cube again and say low latency
chip, um, faster image gen, more free
users come in, but that creates more
inventory for ultimately perhaps an ads
platform. So, you can start to see how
the goal in the last 12 months has been
creating more and more strategic options
that allow me to keep paying for the
compute we need to really achieve our
mission AGI for the benefit of humanity.
So you know the way to simplify that is
demand is limited
>> not by
>> anything other than availability of
compute today whether it's Sora or more
broadly
>> and then there's price elastity
elasticity
>> where demand is infinite for compute. So
I think that's the way to think about
it. It just we haven't even started to
exercise the price elasticity lever. It
just we can't fulfill demand,
>> right?
>> Uh and it's limited by compute. So all
the people talking about bubbles and
things I I think are on the wrong track.
They have no sense of how large this
change is and how much more demand
elasticity there's a need for API calls.
As one of OpenAI's earliest investors,
you made a bet early on. You saw where
this was headed, but you've saw the dot
bubble. You watched what happened there,
but you've also seen other things. The
mobile revolution, you've seen this
happen with other areas. And you
mentioned the term broad and is that
sort of where your conviction comes from
is just how many different areas it
touches?
>> Yeah, look when we invested we had one
simple metric. There was no projections
to look at, no product plans to look at,
no chat GPT to look at. It was very
simply the idea if we develop anywhere
near close to human intelligence let
alone supersede human intelligence
the it's its impact is going to be huge.
So it was this hand baby approach like
the consequences of success are really
going to be consequential.
So
why not try try that? uh people there's
also this funny notion of bubble. People
equate bubble to stock prices which has
nothing to do with anything other than
fear and greed among investors. So I
always look at bubbles should be
measured by the number of API calls.
>> Mhm.
>> Or in the dotcom bubble which people
refer to. It should be amount of
internet traffic.
>> Mhm.
>> Not by what happened to stock prices
because somebody got over excited or
under excited and in one day they can go
from loving Nvidia to hating Nvidia
because it's overvalued. Those
girrations
aren't reality. The reality is the
underlying number of API calls.
>> If you look at internet traffic during
the dotcom bubble, prices may have gone
gone up violently and gone down
violently. There's no bubble detected in
internet traffic.
I would
almost guarantee you you won't see the
bubble in number of API calls. And if
that's your fundamental metric of what's
the real use of you AI, usefulness of
AI, demand for AI, you're not going to
see a bubble in API calls. What Wall
Street tends to do with it, I don't
really care. I think it's mostly
irrelevant. Great for press articles
because press has to fill their column
inches but it's not reality. So prices
of things aren't reality or stock prices
private company valuations. The reality
is what's the actual demand for AI which
is the number of API calls
>> right and if I think if I hark back to
that moment where you were looking at
1999 the the value people were getting
from the internet at the time was
actually very it it was so young so nent
that you couldn't really see how it was
changing their lives I do think that
with AI it's happened so fast yeah that
change it's very real like as a CFO,
forget about being the CFO of OpenAI,
but as a CFO, what I see happening in my
organization is truly taking tasks that
previously I would have kept having to
add more and more people doing fairly
mundane things. Like let's take
something like revenue management. Um,
so in in a team that does revenue
management, they h one of the things
they do every day is they have to
download all the contracts that we
signed the day before or through the
week and they have to read all of those
contracts to make sure there's no terms
sitting in it that are unexpected that
are effectively non-standard terms
because a non-standard term means that
there could be a revenue recognition
change that has to happen and that's a
very big deal for a finance team. That's
the number one thing usually your
auditors come in to audit you on the
pace at which we are growing right the
number of contracts every day is going
up in multiples. So my only choice in a
pre oai preai world would have been hire
more people and imagine what those
people's jobs are like. You come to work
every day and you read a contract and
then you read the next one and the next
one. It is so mundane and such drudgery.
And that's not why people, you know,
went to school and learned about the
accounting field or thought about being
a finance professional, but that's kind
of the job we hand them as an
entry-level job. Today, using our own
tools here at OpenAI, I now have
overnight all of those contracts are
pulled out of a system. They are put
into a tabular database, the data bricks
database in our case. um the a the agent
or the intelligence is able to go
through. It shows me exactly what is
non-standard and why. It suggests what
therefore the revreck is, but it also
suggests the insight which is, you know,
should this term even be here? Did the
saleserson just give away something they
shouldn't have? In which case, you know,
I go and I coach them.
>> Um is it actually telling me something
about my business that's starting to
shift? in which case this non-standard
term is actually should become a
standard term and I'm actually what I'm
experiencing is a shift in my business
model which might actually be a good
thing or perhaps I want to find a
different way to help get the customer
what they're looking for the salesperson
what they're looking for but maintain my
revenue recognition my current business
model right so I now my more junior
entry level people are over on the right
of that discussion
and they're kind of the job they loved.
>> That to me is why it's not a bubble
because the value is real and tangible.
Like it also means I probably can have a
smaller team. I can have a much more
high performing team, a much higher
morale on my team, better retention
rates, right? All of these I can put
into like numbers to say my business is
now healthier. And I think that's the
piece when the press is trying to lead
with the bubble conversation or
whatever, they just miss that we are
investing with demand. If anything,
behind demand at the moment a bubble to
me suggests you're investing ahead of
demand and there's going to be a gap.
>> And you look at productivity numbers,
they're going up in the companies that
are adapting AI, especially the newer
set of tech oriented companies. The
numbers are just absolutely amazing. So
one of my favorites is a little company
called Slash
>> about 150 million ARR.
They have one person in accounting only
a controller because they adapted an AI
oriented ERP system.
Uh they replaced Netswuite with it. But
uh and and it's just amazing what they
can do. And the CEO was apologizing to
me. He might have to hire a second
person. Uh, and they're moving really
rapidly. I just saw a story somebody
replaced 10 SDRs with one SDR and AI
essentially that the one SDR remaining
supervises.
>> Yeah,
>> it it's I've been hearing two stories
about where instead of hiring somebody
that's in an area that doesn't create
growth, they can now then when they hire
hire people that are creating a lot more
growth for the company. And that's why
you're seeing a lot of these tech
companies just build so fast. You know
that old phrase, the future is here now,
but it's not evenly distributed.
>> Yes.
>> I see all these single points of huge
productivity gains and efficiency gains
or agility gains, the ability to move
faster. Um, but very small percentage
of the people in the world on in the US
or worldwide have adapted these or even
know they exist,
>> right? And so this issue back to demand
I think this I these ideas some of these
examples will spread to everybody over
time and you'll see an exponential
growth of adoption of these
technologies. That's why I don't think
demand is the question.
>> Yeah, the note is absolutely spoton. I
think Mackenzie did a study that showed
for companies that are more in the top
quartile, their productivity as measured
by, you know, any kind of financial
metric you would pull is up, you know,
in the 27 to 33%. Like that's a really
meaningful jump. I think where you were
going is it doesn't just mean fewer
employees overall. There's definitely a
place to kind of shift people over into
more growthoriented jobs. I was hiking
this weekend with someone who runs a
very large consulting company that you
all would know of and he was talking
about how his in his what he thinks of
more his backend systems, the leader
there is now talking about her
organization as people plus agents and
she has a 1:5 ratio, one person to five
agents.
>> But on the front end, they're actually
back out rehiring to grow because
clients need more help now to think
about deploying AI. So it's actually
shifting back I would say to the jobs
people want to do not the jobs that
maybe were just open to them because
more and more of the world had become
this kind of you know so much
information that people were parsing it
and now we're finally back to a machine
and agent intelligence parsing it.
>> I want to I want to touch back on the
consumer side. You mentioned ads
>> and certainly the argument can be made
that with ads you can increase the
benefits to people. You can provide more
services, more AI. how you can help pay
for the compute and people get more out
of those tiers with that. But that
brings up the question though of trust
and when people think about AI initially
even asking questions people worried
about what does Chad cheapy do with my
information once you have ads in play
people worry about that because it's
often just a big question of how does
that affect the rest of the product and
the or
>> yeah so I think you started in the right
place which is today 95% of our users
use our platform for free on the
consumer side and that's absolutely
where our mission is right AJI for the
benefit of humanity not the benefit of
humanity who can pay, right? So access
is very important. From an ads
perspective, I think number one, we have
to just make sure everyone understands
you're always going to get the best
answer the model can provide you, not
the paid for answer. And I think other
platforms have fallen back into that
where you're not sure is this a
sponsored link or is this truly the best
outcome. We have a northstar which is
that the model will always give you the
best answer. I think the second thing to
understand is that there can be a lot of
utility in ads. So, we want to make sure
people know when it is an ad that
they're working with. But, for example,
if I do a search for a weekend getaway
to pick your favorite city, I don't
know, San Diego, um, an ad for Airbnb
might actually be very helpful. And you
might even want to have a discussion
with the ad or with the advertiser in
that case in a chat GBT setting that's
very rich, but you're clear that it's in
an advertising setting. And I think this
is where there's there has to be more
innovation on what feels endemic to the
platform, not just kind of the old world
of stick, you know, banner ads on
things. Um, and I think the third and
final thing for me is again there always
has to be a tier where advertising
doesn't exist. So we give the user some
choice and some control. Um but we're
very mindful of your data. When we
released health, we were very clear your
data is off to one side. It's not being
used to train on and so on. And I think
we just need to keep giving users that
kind of that trust is everything for
OpenAI and that we're going to stand by
those principles even when it comes to
things like ads.
>> On the consumer side, is it going to be
a world where you're going to have a lot
of subscriptions to different AI
services? I I think you'll have every
model. U most people will have more than
one subscription. Media is a good
example. Most people have more than one
subscription media. And so that's a good
proxy for consumer behavior. Uh
different people will pick different
choices including free choices which
also which which is ad supported media
too. So even the same services you can
get for pay or for free. I I think
you'll see a wide range of diversity.
>> How do you think about though the
expense of going to a different
platform? So I like chat GPT memory. I'm
finding it more and more helpful because
as I ask about one thing, it remembers
something we talked about maybe weeks
ago, months ago. Pulse, which is today
not widely distributed, but it's the
more it's the way I wake up in the
morning now. So I can actually it's so
amazing. And when you start connecting
it to things like your calendar, so it's
not just saying, you know, you say are
very interested in AI data centers,
which clearly it must think I'm the most
boring person on earth because this is
what I see a lot of, but it also says,
hey, on your calendar, you're going to
be sitting down with Benode today. You
know, remember a couple of these things
like it's so helpful. But if I am
multihoming,
I'm losing the benefit, which is not the
same as if I subscribe to the Wall
Street Journal, The Economist, and the
New York Times. they're not really
losing out if I go read in other places
in the same way or I'm not losing out.
>> Yeah. So I I do think memory is an
important question
>> whether there'll be one per wear or more
than one perware of the models
>> on each model there'll be multiple
services that may offer different
tradeoffs.
>> Yeah. So even
whether you're talking health or media
>> even on the open AI models there's
multiple
people providing services.
>> So that's what I was thinking of
multihoming but obviously I don't think
open eye will be 100% of the market.
>> I hope so.
>> I was going to say I hope so too but
>> I'm okay with that. But it's an
interesting business model. I think it's
hard for people to wrap their heads
around because like Netflix is a great
company, but there's only so many hours
on the planet that people can watch
Netflix, right? And mobile's great,
right? I only I'd only need so many
minutes of mobile per week or whatever
to do that. With AI and intelligence,
you can have more intelligence. I can
buy more and get better answers and do
this. And I think that's I think I'm
still trying to wrap my head around
about where where that goes. is the idea
that like you start at like you know one
level of free you know use it for free
then you go to a smaller tier and then
as it becomes more useful you start
increasing that where does it go
>> so I think unlike something like Netflix
where there only so many hours in the
day I think of it much more like
infrastructure like electricity how much
electricity do you use in the day I
don't know I walked into a room today
and there was a fan blowing it was
really nice it cooled it down there are
lights on around us right now um you
know there's so many I I charged my
phone overnight and it worked for me all
today. So I think that the state we live
in today is much more I call on chat
GPTI invoke it as opposed to
intelligence just being baked in. Like I
think this will be the big change over
the next couple of years. You'll kind of
look back almost it'll feel a little
toyike that we used to do this thing and
instead it just is everywhere around us.
And so it's not really quite asking
answering the question you're asking,
but it's that I don't get so caught up
that there's only so many hours for
people to do things because I feel like
almost everything I do in life requires
intelligence cuz I'm walking around
hopefully with some intelligence up
here. And if I can get that augmented,
um, I think it's going to surprise us.
Like as we were talking before we got
started, you said about on your phone
when you suddenly discovered you had a
flashlight and a camera. It is you say
that and it's so obvious and yet with
chatbt every time I discover kind of a
what feels like almost a slightly cute
use case I'm so blown away by it like
yesterday morning I do love the
economist I wanted to read the editorial
I didn't really have a ton of time
because I was running upstairs to get
ready so I took a photograph of the
editorial because they're very good they
put it on one page and I asked Chat GPT
to read it to me and it did it and I was
like Oh my god, this is awesome. So, I
just think there are all these moments
where we're just getting started and
multimodal, I think, is probably the
biggest because phones taught us to talk
with our thumbs. And I think this new
world we're moving into, there's going
to be new hardware that just really help
us understand that we can talk, we can
listen, we can see, we can write, we can
do all of these things in a very human
way that we're just scratching the
surface of. So let me give you a
different frame on that. I agree with
all of that.
>> If you look at what we talked about the
internet earlier
>> and the bubble associated with it. But
what the internet did is give you access
to a lot more stuff whether whether it
was media, YouTube videos or Tik Tok or
you name it information of any sort.
uh but it's expanded it to the point
where no human can actually use the
internet fully. I think of AI as given
you're limited to 8,000 some hours a day
some of which is me meant for sleeping
it'll make your time much more
efficient. So the internet exploded
information available to you to the
point where you couldn't use it. And I
think what AI will do is filter it to
make your every hour the most effective
hour if you know how to use it. So
intelligence will reduce the world to
what is most relevant to you personally
and I may have a different set of
priorities than Sarah. So I think of
intelligence as summarizing the world to
the most relevant things for me and the
most relevant things to her which are
different.
So I think that's where there's almost
unlimited capacity for intelligence to
be used to reduce information when the
internet exploded information.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> We we've talked a lot about consumer
side and it feels like open eye is very
much winning the consumer side. Question
comes up about enterprise and how is
openi going to compete and win in that
area.
>> So I think we're already winning in this
area. Um what I see is you know 90% of
corporations are saying they either are
using open AI or intend to use over the
next 12 months right um I think the
second is Microsoft and Microsoft's
using our technology so I actually think
we have this is where the consumer is a
really potent part of the enterprise
flywheel so as I said earlier when
someone you know you back in the day
when you first started bringing your
iPhone to work and corporates didn't
want you to do that you just discover
discovered you can't say no to the title
wave that is consumer preference. So
something I'm already using that I've
already got in my pocket and I get to
work my expectation is work is at least
as good if not better. And so that's
what's helped drive our internet our uh
actual enterprise business the fastest
company ever to get to 1 million
businesses on a platform and we did that
in about a year and a half. Um but where
to from here cuz clearly we're just
scratching the surface. So some of it is
certainly meeting customers in terms of
their vertical so that we talk to them
in their language and we learn this art
of enterprise selling which is let me
not tell you all about my products but
let me understand your problem like what
is your board forcing on you Mr. or Mrs.
CEO, what is the thing your customers
most want that you can't deliver? Okay,
let's start putting intelligence against
that. We can then drop that down into
some light vertical specialization to
quite heavy vertical specialization.
things like RLing models that are very
pertinent to a use case like let's say
in an energy company it might be really
understanding that particular oil well
or all the seismic data they have to say
what's the recovery we're going to get
out of this gas field like that is deep
special specialization and then I think
it gets the whole way to some of these
big transformational research projects
that we have begun where we're actually
almost taking over someone's whole
business and helping them rethink it in
a smarter, faster, better way that
ultimately drives their key business
metrics. So, it's a journey. I think
most corporates have started with
wall-to-wall chat GPT. That's an easy
starting point. They've done some
coding. Um, and in many cases, a lot of
coding. Like when I talk to corporates,
they're now CEOs are starting to say
things like 60% of all my production
code was built by, you know, an agent.
And I'm like, you didn't even know what,
you know, production code meant 12
months ago, but now you're saying that
that's good because it means you're
tracking it. Um, but on agents, it's
just starting. Like we only see about
14% of all kind of customers when you go
out and just survey us corporates are
using something agentic today. 14% when
I just explained what's happening in my
finance organization. So I think we are
just getting going. But I couldn't be
more excited about the opportunity. It's
huge.
>> Okay. But if I'm a startup
>> and I look at everything OpenAI is
doing, I might be asking, is there room
for me? What do I got to do?
>> The models will keep getting better and
do more and more. But I do believe
there's lots of room to build on top.
You know, no one company can do
everything on the planet. there's
billions of people who are working that
whose job AI can help with. I don't
think OpenAI will specialize in every
one of those. So I think the careful
thing to do is is be clear where the
models will go OpenAI or others and what
they will be able to do and how do you
use that best to then specialize into a
more interesting world
>> like some sort of specialization where
you add something that's additional to
the base models in and frankly just
intelligence isn't the only thing to
provide a solution. There's lots of
other stuff that goes around solution
beyond intelligence. So I think there's
lots of opportunity to build on top of
these models and the more powerful they
get the number of opportunities to add
to it dramatically increases. How do you
think about so I think a lot about use
cases where there's already a lot of um
data that's being aggregated perhaps by
that startup by that company that you
know today I think 95% of the world's
information actually sits behind
corporate firewalls university firewalls
and so on so there's even though we talk
about the vast training that's occurred
again we're just getting going but I
think companies that have already built
businesses that have aggregated that
data have access to it and then on top
of that have managed complex workflows.
So I often give the example of our
procurement system. Procurement system
per se not that complicated but what it
does very well is it understands things
like delegation of authority. So it
knows what the board has approved in
terms of approval limits. So it knows
that when this software contract comes
in it's x over x amount so only I can
approve it or if it's beneath that but
it knows a VP can improve it. It doesn't
know that Andrew's a VP, but it knows to
touch the HRS system and check what's
his level and so the whole procurement
flow can happen in a way where I have
compliance and governance and hopefully
makes just the whole company run faster.
Those are places I get interested for
startups. So where have you got access
to unique data with a complex workflow?
It feels like there's more of a moat
around that that we want to work
alongside you, but you know the general
purpose model is not going to do all of
that itself.
>> Yeah. No, I I I completely buy that. I
think there's lots of opportunity.
>> I've seen quite a few startups around
just permissioning around data.
>> Yeah.
>> Like who can do access to what
information.
>> For example,
>> I've seen a whole bunch of startups
around customizing to each company
>> the models for their history
and their priorities.
and the agent the whole identity side of
agents. I think we're just starting to
understand um both the risk that can
happen when you have agents talking to
agents talking to agents but then also
how are you going to permission that and
then start to think about like agentic
commerce like the the the complexity
that's coming is also quite big. So to
suggest there's no more opportunity as a
startup I think it's never been probably
more interesting or fun to be a startup.
Yeah, I think there's more opportunities
than they've ever been.
>> What are you looking for now? What gets
you excited when you talk to a company?
>> Well, the hardest thing is great people
always. Uh but uh I think the other
thing that has been in short supply is
agency where people sort of have the
agency to make things happen. That's
again comes down to people. But there
there's so much opportunity. I think I
think traditional things like knowing a
space or experience in space is much
less relevant now. It's more agency.
We've not talked about the whole new
world of robotics and real world models
and all that. That's a whole space by
itself that we probably don't have time
for.
>> Well, do we? We've got time.
>> I've got plenty of time. I'd love to I
want to go there. Yeah, because we we we
talked about where we're headed here and
you you you famously talked about kind
of the world of 2050 and things are
moving fast, models are getting faster
and more capable and where do you see
things like robotics headed?
>> Well, I think two years ago when I gave
a talk at TED, I said the robotics
business,
both bipeedal and other robots will be a
larger business in 15 years than the
auto industry is today. We think of auto
industry as one of the larger businesses
on the planet
>> and this other thing will be larger.
>> I don't think there's very many
automotive companies who are thinking of
the world that way.
>> They're thinking about how to use a
robot in their assembly line. Not that
that business is larger than their
current business. All driven by the
intelligence of robots. So massive
opportunities for startups there and
we're seeing a lot of activities.
>> Yeah. And we and I think sometimes we
underestimate so when you think about
robots in the home right people very
fertile area a lot no one's really had a
breakthrough though there's so many
different issues around the complexity
actually sometimes the more time I spend
in AI they actually the more respect I
have for the human condition in a way um
because our ability to move around the
world and do you know if you watch like
the people in robotics getting so
excited about a robot folding clothes
you know perhaps my 18-year-old I'd be
just as excited about. But for the
average human, I assume they can fold
clothes.
>> Um, but I think
>> the hello world of robotics now is
folding clothes,
>> but you do get a little stuck in your
head that they have to somehow be a
human, but it turns out there may just
be these breakthrough moments. Like for
example, um, uh, companionship in the
home, right? We have an aging
population. What's one of the biggest,
you know, we talk about epidemics in the
world? Loneliness, probably one of the
biggest acade epidemics. What does
someone living alone, maybe has just
lost a spouse, value most, just someone
to converse with in a way that feels
intuitive and human? We see people using
chatbt more and more for this
conversation, but is there a
humanoidesque breakthrough where it
turns out you don't need it to make
coffee or fold clothes or do the dishes,
although that would be good too, but it
might just be something a little bit
more simple that still adds a lot of
value and is just the the first crawl of
crawl walk run of this kind of future
that Benode is talking about where that
whole complex is X times more valuable
ever than we saw in automotives.
>> I think that it's it's interesting
because we can sort of think of kind of
like our present and put robots in
places and do things like that. It's
really hard to think of when you really
have extremely
lowcost labor, manufacturing, etc. And
then the world you can build from there
because, you know, we can look at that's
a good solution for now, but when the
cost of building a wonderful
state-of-the-art assisted living
facility where you can put a bunch of
people together, the cost drops. And I
think that's the thing I have my the
hardest problem is for me is to really
think like what does it really mean when
you lower the cost? We've lowered the
cost of intelligence. What does it mean
we really lower the cost of labor?
>> Uh my personal view sometime
probably towards the end of the the next
decade you'll see a massively
deflationary economy because labor will
be near free, expertise will be near
free. Uh most functions will be almost
zero cost. how it exactly plays out. A
little hard to tell how purchasing power
versus production of goods and services
plays out, but I expect we'll see a
hugely deflationary economy at a level
people aren't planning on. So there's
social aspects of adaption of AI that
hasn't been handled yet. I think the
conversation we need to have is what
will people do? I get asked that a lot.
Um how will people
make a living. I think the minimum
standard of living governments can
assure people is going to be much much
higher uh without needing to earn an
income. I mean, I can't imagine
much better primary care like 10x more
primary care than today
doesn't happen for a dollar a month. I I
have a hard time imagining how that
happens. It will be true. It costs
almost nothing to have free primary
care, free education, almost AI tutors
for every p personal tutors for every
child that's already happening. Um, so
there's a set of services that'll be
free. There's some hard nuts to crack.
Housing is the hard one. um you know for
people in the bottom half of the US
population they spend 40ome percent of
their income on housing and food. Uh so
there's some hard nuts but I do think
both are addressable by robotics and
better approaches.
>> Well this has been a very interesting
conversation. I'm excited to see where
things are headed. Thank you both for
joining us here on the podcast.
>> Thank you.